excellent welcome everyone so today
we're going to be looking at how to
write a high-scoring essay so I'm going
to go through with you the criteria in
detail that alse examiner use to score
you and we're going to talk about what
you can do to get a higher score so as
you know with B writing class 2 you have
to write a 250 word response to an essay
question in 40 minutes so how is the has
your essay scored well it's scored
according to four criteria the criteria
are task achievement coherence and
cohesion lexical resource romantical
range and accuracy now I'm sure that all
sounds like a total another language to
you so we're going to look at each of
these things in detail looking at what
do they mean and how can you score in
each of these criteria so the first one
is task achievement
so this basically means that you answer
all parts of the essay question that you
present relevant ideas that are related
specifically to the essay question that
you fully explained these ideas and then
you support these ideas with relevant
and specific examples so to score highly
and task achievement you'll need to
answer the question properly let's look
at an example here we have an essay
question more and more people are
migrating to cities in search of a
better life but still alive can be
extremely difficult
exclaims some of the difficulties of
living in a city how can government make
urban life better for everyone now this
is quite a dense question there's a lot
there the essay question is actually
asking you to do two things it's asking
you to talk about one the difficulties
of urban
living and to what governments can do to
improve urban living so there's actually
two questions there that you need to
answer if you do not address both of
these topics then you're going to score
five or below so you need to understand
how to unpack the essay question and
understand exactly what is being asked
of you sentence one is just a general
opening sentence it gives you an idea
what the essay is about it's about more
and more people migrating to cities then
there's two questions the first one says
explains some difficulties of living in
a city question one explained the
difficulties question two what can
government do to make urban life better
so you need to answer both of these
questions to score highly in a task
achievement criteria let's look at
another example some people believe it
is a good idea for students to work
part-time to ensure better opportunities
in the future others are of the opinion
that a job during study distracts the
individual discuss both views and give
your opinion so in order to score highly
in task achievement you must answer all
three parts of that question number one
while working while studying is good
number two while working while studying
is bad and number three your opinion so
let's have a look at the question again
opinion number one some people believe
it's a good idea for students to work
part time number two others are of the
opinion that a job during study describe
distracts the individual question 3
discuss both views and give your opinion
so if you do not address all of these
three topics again you're not going to
get over a 5 in the
tasks achievement criteria so if we go
back to task achievement oops why is it
taking me ahead I don't want to go ahead
let me go back to task achievement so
again you need to answer all parts of
the question your ideas need to be
related specifically to the question you
need to explain these ideas and support
them with examples okay let's move on to
the second criteria which is coherence
and cohesion so what does this mean it
means that you structure your answers in
logical paragraphs so you need to have
four to five clear paragraphs you need
to include an introduction and a
conclusion in your body paragraphs you
should only be discussing one main idea
per body paragraph you should support
this idea with explanations and examples
and you should use cohesive devices
accurately and appropriately cohesive
devices are what we call linking words
these are words that link sentences and
link ideas to help your paragraphs have
a logical structure and logical order
and you should vary the linking devices
so use a nice variety of linking words
so to score highly incoherent and
cohesion you need to make it clear what
each paragraph is about and then
logically organize each sentence in the
paragraph linking them with cohesive
devices so your paragraphs should look
like this they should start with an
opening sentence which introduces the
main idea it should then follow on with
an
explanation of the main idea or reason
why you believe this a specific example
and then a closing sentence which
repeats the main idea ok so this is your
paragraph structure that is you follow
that structure your coherence and
cohesion is going to be quite strong
again each paragraph should have one
main idea a band five answer will have
more than one idea in each paragraph a
seven to eight answer will have only one
idea which is explained and supported so
let's have a look an example of each the
essay question is more and more people
are migrating to cities in search of a
better life but city life can be
extremely difficult explain some of the
difficulties of living in a city and how
governments can make urban life better
so a band 5 body paragraph urban living
has many benefits access to transport is
very easy
everything is closes and convenient
schools and shops are everywhere living
in the city has many benefits
now grammatically this sentence doesn't
have any mistakes but how cohesive is it
well this paragraph talks about too many
different ideas and doesn't support or
explain any of them so it talks about
transport everything is close and
convenient schools and shops so here we
have three different ideas and none of
them are explained
there's no example for any of them so in
that case this sent this paragraph is
not coherent it's not developed and it
doesn't make any use of cohesive devices
to link the sentences it goes from one
sentence to the next one without any
clear relationship
so let's look at a band 7 paragraph for
coherence and cohesion urban living has
many benefits one of them is access to
transport it's a mistake this means that
people can commute easily to and from
work more efficiently and economically
for example trains run regularly and
commuters can avoid peak hour traffic
using trains is also more affordable
than the cost of petrol therefore in
terms of transportation urban living
provides positive options now this is a
much more coherent and cohesive
paragraph firstly it talks about only
one main idea so it talks about
transport and then every sentence in
that paragraph is related to that main
idea of transport I then give a reason
why is transport a benefit because
people can communicate easily sufficient
it's economical and then I develop it
with an example so at an example of why
it's efficient is because people can
avoid peak hour traffic an example of
wives economical is because it's cheaper
than the cost of petrol so the ideas are
all related it also uses cohesive
devices to link the sentences um things
like urban transport has many benefits
than either one of them so one of these
benefits so this sentence is clearly
linked to this one is transport this
means again this is cohesive device that
links the previous sentence for example
a clear cohesive device that tells the
reader an example of something and
therefore is a linking word that shows
the logical connection of this sentence
to the previous one so this paragraph
would be a 7 plus in coherence and
cohesion
let's move on to the third criteria
which is lexical resource this is
basically a fancy way of saying
vocabulary how well do you use
vocabulary in your writing so you should
try to vary your vocabulary variate
meaning use a wide variety using
accurate synonyms now accurate is very
important because many people use
synonyms or use different words that
they think have the same meaning but
actually are not really appropriate so
make sure that we use synonyms they're
the right ones try to use less common
words okay things like you know instead
of old people you could use elderly so
words that are less common and use
correct word forms so this is where your
knowledge of word forms come in handy
what's the difference between an
adjective and an adverb for example very
important that you use them correctly
check your work for spelling this is the
category where spelling is is graded and
word formation mistakes some people
think that using long complicated words
will get them more points but unless
you're absolutely sure that that word is
appropriate and accurate avoid using
them to get a high band score in
vocabulary you do need to let use less
common words but they need to be precise
let's have a look at an example of a
band 5 the question is some people
believe it's a good idea for students to
work part-time to ensure better
opportunities in the future
others are of the opinion that having a
job during study distracts the
individual so here's my body paragraph
some people believe it is good for
students to work part-time for better
forthcoming prospects students who work
part-time can
learn practical skills to help them in
their future careers for example when
students go job in the future they'll
already have practical skills that is
why is a good idea for students to work
part-time
now grammatically this pay graph is fine
in terms of coherence and cohesion it's
fine it talks about one main idea and
develops it but the vocabulary is quite
limited let's have a look at why there's
too much repetition this first sentence
is a repetition of the first sentence of
the question
I haven't paraphrased I've used the
exact same words and then here we have
students students students work
part-time work part-time work part-time
too much repetition limited range I
haven't showed that I have a wide range
of vocabulary and that I can use
synonyms here I've tried to use a
synonym but it's inappropriate instead
of better opportunities in the future
I've said better forthcoming prospects
now although forthcoming can be synonym
for the future it doesn't work it
doesn't sit right in this sentence it
sounds strange it sounds non-native and
it just sounds funny so when you're
going to use synonyms make sure they're
appropriate
let's have a look at a seven plus
example for vocabulary some are of the
belief that students should gain
part-time employment to further their
future career prospects those who do so
can learn practical skills that will
assist them when entering the workforce
after completing their studies for
example employers will look more highly
at a candidate who has real-world
experience rather than just theoretical
knowledge therefore on the one hand it
is considered beneficial for students to
work part-time
vocabulary would be seven plus because
there are fewer errors however some
errors are permitted so here for example
is a word form mistake some are of the
you believe believe is a noun
this should be sorry believe is a verb
and it should be the noun it should be
belief case up made of word for mistake
there the paragraph uses appropriate
synonyms so instead of work I've used
employment and instead of opportunities
in the future I've said career prospects
so this is a much more appropriate
choice of words and a due to what used a
wider range of vocabulary collocations
and uncommon words collocations are
things like practical skills theoretical
knowledge real-world experience
okay words that kind of go together so
this is good our work force this is a
less kind word candidate is also a less
common word so I've used a range of
vocabulary collocations and uncommon
words moving on to grammar so in the
criteria they call it grammatical range
and accuracy meaning that you've used a
range of grammatical structures
different types of sentences and that
you've used them correctly that's what
accuracy means so let's break it down
that you use a variety of complex and
simple sentences we're going to look at
the difference between these in a moment
a variety of appropriate sentence
structures that your writing does not
contain errors and that you've checked
your writing for mistakes and if you
found them that you fixed them so to
school well and grammar you must use a
variety of sentence
simple sentences and complex sentences
so what's a simple sentence a simple
sentence is composed of three basic
things these are the things that a
simple sentence must have to be complete
for example some people are many people
are migrating to the city people is the
subject people is the thing that the
sentence is about must have a verb here
we have are migrating so verbs can come
in different forms here this is present
continuous and a simple sentence must
have an object in this case it's the
city so the subject is who the verb is
what are they doing and the object is
the thing that it's happening to so you
must vary your simple sentences with
complex sentences complex sentences does
not not mean long and complicated a
complex sentence consists of two simple
sentences joined together with a
connecting word so let's have a look at
these two simple sentences sentence 1
urban living has many benefits the
subject here is what what is the
sentence about urban living the verb has
what do they have what's the object
benefits simple sentence urban living
has drawbacks these are complete now if
I want to make a complex sentence to
make my writing more interesting I can
join them together using a connecting
word for example although over living
has many benefits it also has many
drawbacks so this makes my writing less
rigid less mechanicals and more
interesting there are three ways that we
can form complex sentences one way is to
use
fanboys this is an acronym so the F
stands for for the a it's for and the N
for nor B but the O stands for or which
is missing the Y for yet in the s4 so
all right so these are conjunctions
these are small words that can connect
to simple sentences so my simple
sentences are public transport is
efficient and affordable
it doesn't always run on time now it
will be grammatically correct to write
these two sentences but it sounds too
rigid it would be much nicer and more
natural if I join them using a
connecting word for example public
transport is efficient and affordable
but it doesn't always run on time
okay so here's an example of how you can
make complex symptoms using fanboys one
of these connecting words another way
you can make a complex sentence is by
using connectors such as although
because while even though so sentence
one urban living is convenient the cut
is very high I can connect these using a
connector like while while urban living
is convenient the cost is very high so
here's a nice complex sentence doesn't
have to be long doesn't have to include
too much information I'm taking two
simple sentences each that has a subject
a verb and an object and joining them
together with a connecting word a third
way to create a complex sentence is to
use a relative relative clause or
relative word which is who which or that
so these are reference words let's have
a look at my two simple sentences city
dwellers have better access to
public facilities these facilities
include hospitals and cultural
institutions I can create one complex
sentence by joining this together with a
relative pronoun which city dwellers
have better access to public facilities
which include schools hospitals and
cultural facilities or cultural
institutions though which is a relative
pronoun because it relates facilities
with the following sentence all right so
here are three ways that you can create
complex sentences so let's have a look
at AB and v grammar many people
migrating to cities they are looking for
their life city life can be very hard
there is many crime a lot of problems
can be not safe some people make problem
this is why city life is hard
so some grammar issues there so this
would only be a 5-4 grandma-y
firstly the bow grass uses a lot of
simple sentences many people migrating
to cities stop there looking for better
life
stop this is why city life is hard stop
so it's mainly and city life can be very
hard so mainly simple sentences not
enough variety of sentence types then
the paragraph contains one long sentence
without appropriate punctuation there is
many crime a lot of problems can be not
safe here this is actually three simple
sentences there is many crime there is
there subject is verb crime object a lot
of problems cannot be safe so here there
are three simple sentences but I haven't
used any punctuation to separate them
and I haven't used any cohesive words to
join them so this is an inaccurate
sentence and the paragraph contains
grammatical errors in most of the
sentences many people migrating so I'm
missing here out of the verb many people
are migrating they are looking for
better life I'm missing the indefinite
article there is many crime well firstly
is is singular and many is plural okay
and crime is uncountable so it should be
there is a lot of crime some people make
problem one problem or many problems so
here this should be plural so most of my
sentences have grammatical errors let's
look at AB and 7 response the grammar
many people are migrating to cities
looking for a better life city life can
be very hard because crime are hein this
means it can be unsafe people need to be
more careful about their personal safety
although city life has advantages it
also has disadvantages crime is one of
the factor that makes city living
difficult so nicely cohesive I've got
here some nice cohesive devices I've
talked about one central idea in the
paragraph I've used some last vocabulary
collocations the grammar is okay about
half of the sentences are error free
okay so it says here crime are high
crime is singular uncountable so my verb
should be is this mean should be this
means crime is one of the factors so
about half of the sentences are error
free so for a bank 7 they allow for some
errors ok they don't expect it to be
pretty grammar
allow for some mistakes this paragraph
also uses a variety of sentence
structures we have a simple sentence we
have complex sentences for example city
life can be very hard because crime are
high although I have a mistake here my
sentence structure is correct I have
joined two simple sentences city life
can be very hard crime is high I've
joined two simple sentences with the
connecting word because so here I have a
complex sentence here city life has
advantages it also has disadvantages
I've joined these two simple sentences
with the connecting word although all
right so a mix of simple and complex
senses ok let's recap how you can score
highly in each of the criteria for your
essay first criteria is task achievement
you need to answer all parts of the
essay question ok you need to break the
essay question down how many things is
it asking you to do you need to talk
about relevant ideas this means stay on
topic ok some people answer the question
but vaguely or answer the question
slightly off topic always go back to the
question your answer needs to be
relevant you need to explain these ideas
develop them support them with specific
examples so this is task achievement
coherence and cohesion basically this
means that your answer your essay must
make sense how does it make sense your
answer should be in logical paragraphs
each paragraph should have one main idea
each main idea needs to be explained and
then supported with an example you
should use cohesive devices or linking
words accurately
the next criteria is lexical resource or
vocabulary
meaning that you vary your vocabulary
use a wide range of accurate synonyms
use less common words case are more
sophisticated words and you use correct
word forms the noun when you need to use
the noun the word will you need to use
the verb etc finally you're graded on
grammar that you use a variety of
complex and simple sentences and that
you use these accurately and correctly
all so that your writing doesn't contain
too many grammatical errors so I hope
that that's clearer now how you can
score more highly in the IELTS writing
task 1 if you have a questions feel free
to ask ok so when talking about
unpacking the question how do you know
how many ideas are there how do you know
how many parts there are to the question
to make sure that you answer it let me
go back to the first one and we'll
unpack it together ok
let's get this example questioned more
more people are migrating to cities in
search of a better life but city life
can be extremely difficult explain some
of the difficulties of living in city
how can government's make urban life
better how many sentences are here there
are three sentences so let's separate
them one two three now is this first
sentence asking us anything or is it
just giving us information more people
are migrating to cities in search of a
better life but city life can be
difficult this is just a statement it's
just giving us a background to what the
essay topic is going to be about then if
we look at the second sentence
explain some of the difficulties of
living a city explained this is an
instruction word it's an instruction
verb it's telling you to do something so
that's the first thing you have to do
explain difficulties of living in a city
paragraph one let's have a look at the
second sentence
how can governments make urban life
better for everyone well this is a
question it's asking you something
it's asking you what could governments
do to improve urban life so this will be
the second paragraph okay so you need to
divide the question into its different
sentences and look is there an
instruction okay is it given me an
instruction and is there a question so
wherever you see an instruction and a
question you know that there are two
things that you have to do there let's
have a look at the second essay question
some people would believe it's a good
idea for students to work part-time to
ensure better opportunities in the
future first sentence is it asking me
anything is it giving me instructions or
is it just giving me an idea of what the
essay is about it's just giving me an
idea it's telling me that some people
think it's good the students work
part-time then here others believe that
having a job is a distraction
again there's no instructions there's no
instruction verb and there's no question
these are two opinions so where's the
instruction what do I have to talk about
here it says discuss both views and give
your opinion so what are both views the
first view is good idea second view is
it's a distraction so distraction would
be bad idea to discuss good idea bad
idea and give my opinion so that's how I
know that I need to do three things one
two
in my opinion three if for example I
only discuss the positive of working
while studying I have not achieved the
task I have not answered all parts of
the essay question if I discuss wide
working while studying is good and while
working while studying is bad but I
don't give my opinion then again I
haven't addressed all parts of the task
so my task achievement criteria is going
to be incomplete so what I suggest you
do when you guys get your essay question
because it's on paper you can't really
light it the way I have done but what I
would do is put a line after each
sentence
so that you can clearly see what each
symptom starts and where each one begins
and then underline what are the key
words what is it asking you to do what
are the opinions okay because they long
they contain a lot of words it can be
overwhelming so you've got to look for
the clues okay and then you've got to
make them clear by underlining them
while circling them so you need to
practice unpacking essay questions all
right it's also going to save you time
in the essay um all right another
question let me find the example it's
related to the urban living well so let
me find that all right so someone's
asked a very good question someone has
said this question is asking me to let
me just get this explain some of the
difficulties of living in a city yeah so
some is plural and as I explained to you
before each paragraph should talk about
one main idea all right
that's a bit contradictory I would stick
to one difficulty okay because they're
never going to say explain a difficulty
of living in a city all right they're
going to give you the option of
discussing many but in the criteria it
clearly states each body paragraph
should talk about one central topic okay
that's how you develop a logical
paragraph if you start talking about too
many different things your body
paragraphs are going to lose focus and
you're not going to be able to develop
it properly using this structure so
remember one main idea explain that main
idea give an example of that main
idea and then repeat the main idea this
is how you write a coherent paragraph
and also using linking words to join
these sentences all right
okay guys if you don't have any more
questions related to this particular
task or the criteria you can watch this
video again on YouTube you might have to
watch it again a couple of times to
really understand how the essay is
graded because you're writing four
criteria okay so you need to keep these
criteria in mind as you write your essay
all the best luck and I'll see you guys
soon bye